# Medical-Appointment-Time-Estimation
Medical Appointment Time Estimation - Hybrid Fuzzy Logic &amp; Machine Learning Based Expert System Value Estimator
The system is a web enabled expert system that estimate values based on facts (or factors). It uses Fuzzy Logic System to make inference based on fuzzy values. The fuzzy rules are auto generated from the statistical data that is the factors values and the actual output performed. As a case study, the data of the system is dedicated to help doctors in estimating the time required for patient’s treatment.
The system facilitates the addition of any factor the knowledge expert (or the advanced user) may like to add. He/she can simply enter the factor name, range and units and its fuzzy membership functions. When a new case instance is entered the system facilitates entering its factors values within the ranges in accordance to the early specified factors and there ranges.
The system takes a machine learning approach because it automatically generates the fuzzy rules of inference; in accordance to the statistical data.
An example for our case study could be like that: 
If a doctor likes to add as a factor "how much the illness is chronic". He could enter a factor to describe chronicity degree and call it “Chronic” that ranges from 0 to 10 and enter the membership function of it like: none (range from 0 to 2), low (range from 1 to 4) , medium (range from 3 to 8) , high (range from 7 to 10).
After that, for every patient who want to have an appointment, the doctor (or secretary) will enter the patient information. Among the information entered the "Chronic" degree will be entered; either as range from 0 to 10, or as linguistic term, like: "slightly high".
When the patient comes to the clinic and finishes his treatment, the real time passed during the appointment is entered to be used later for learning.
Later on, learning is performed according to the actual values needed for the appointment for each patient in relevance to their (or their illness) features, attributes, and properties early defined and entered. For or Chronic example a rule like: if Chronic is high the patient will stay for four time sluts.
